README.md, before:

# Prisma Starter

> Run your prisma service as a docker container with the prisma engine and MySQL Database.

<!-- TOC -->

- [Prisma Starter](#prisma-starter)
  - [Getting Started](#getting-started)
    - [Where :: Code](#where--code)
    - [Where :: Servers](#where--servers)
    - [Build Scripts](#build-scripts)
    - [Gif Demo](#gif-demo)
      - [localhost:4466 vs prisma:4466](#localhost4466-vs-prisma4466)

<!-- /TOC -->

## Getting Started

- **Install**
  > cd src/ && yarn install
- **Start**
  > yarn start

See [Build Scripts](#build-scripts) for options.

---

### Where :: Code

| Directory      | Description                       |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- |
| src/`service`  | Our service which utilizes Prisma |
| src/`database` | MySQL                             |

### Where :: Servers

| Purpose     | URI   | Port |
| :---------- | :---- | :--- |
| Our Service | local | 4000 |
| Prisma      | local | 4466 |
| Database    | local | 3306 |

---

### Build Scripts

**Default**

> Modify start to the primary script of your choice.

- `start`

  > This is the default entry point to make your development easier. Replace this with "start:docker:db" or "start:docker:all" depending on your preferred development workflow.

**Primary**

> Primary scripts should be called by "npm start" script

- `start:docker:db`

  > This runs Prisma Engine (:4466) and MySQL (:3306) in docker. Meanwhile, it runs your service locally. Use this option for local development.

- `start:docker:all`

  > This runs Prisma Engine (:4466), MySQL (:3306) and your Node service (:4000) in Docker containers

**Helper**

> Helper scripts should be called by Primary scripts

- `start:docker:entrypoint`

  > This is what's called the Dockerfile's CMD entry point.

- `start:vanilla`

  > This runs babel-node against your service's index file _without_ livereload enabled.

- `playground`

  > This launches the local GraphQL Playground on your machine.

- `dev`

  > Launch prisma-service locally with GraphQL Playground

- `docker:db`

  > Docker-compose script for _only_ Prisma Engine & MySQL

- `docker:all`
  > Docker-compose script for Prisma Engine, MySQL & your Node service.

### Gif Demo

> In case you're wondering, the demo below was captured after running `npm run start:docker:db`.
> However, from the browser, this is functionally identical to running `npm run start:docker:all`

**open localhost:4000 && open localhost:4466**
![prstar_localhost_4000_4466](https://github.com/servexyz/prisma-starter/blob/master/docs/prstar_localhost_4000_4466.gif)

> Want to see gifs of docker-compose.db.yml or docker-compose.all.yml executing?
> Visit [demo.md](./docs/demo.md)

---

#### localhost:4466 vs prisma:4466

You'll notice in [.env](./.env) that process.env.PRISMA_ENDPOINT is set to `http://localhost:4466`. However, in [index.js](./src/service/index.js) the Prisma server is initialized with `http://prisma:4466`

This is necessary when using docker-compose to containerize our prisma service (ie. src/service/...) along with the prisma engine (ORM layer which translates between prisma queries and mysql) & mysql database (persistent storage).

Why?
Short answer is because I'm not using Linux (I use Mac). The type of network you need to map Docker's localhost to your host's (ie. your laptop's) localhost is only available on Linux. I did find a [3rd party solution](https://github.com/mal/docker-for-mac-host-bridge) but decided to not go that route. I haven't tested this, so it could work. Just wanted to do it the vanilla way if possible (fortunately it was!)

If you'd like to explore more, you can peruse my notes on the issue [here](./docs/Docker_Localhost_Access_Issue.pdf)

Commit message:

Added some screenshots of output

README.md, after:

# Prisma Starter

> Run your prisma service as a docker container with the prisma engine and MySQL Database.

<!-- TOC -->

- [Prisma Starter](#prisma-starter)
  - [Getting Started](#getting-started)
    - [Where :: Code](#where--code)
    - [Where :: Servers](#where--servers)
    - [Build Scripts](#build-scripts)
    - [Gif Demo](#gif-demo)
      - [localhost:4466 vs prisma:4466](#localhost4466-vs-prisma4466)

<!-- /TOC -->

## Getting Started

- **Install**
  > cd src/ && yarn install
- **Start**
  > yarn start

See [Build Scripts](#build-scripts) for options.

---

### Where :: Code

| Directory      | Description                       |
| :------------- | :-------------------------------- |
| src/`service`  | Our service which utilizes Prisma |
| src/`database` | MySQL                             |

### Where :: Servers

| Purpose     | URI   | Port |
| :---------- | :---- | :--- |
| Our Service | local | 4000 |
| Prisma      | local | 4466 |
| Database    | local | 3306 |

---

### Build Scripts

**Default**

> Modify start to the primary script of your choice.

- `start`

  > This is the default entry point to make your development easier. Replace this with "start:docker:db" or "start:docker:all" depending on your preferred development workflow.

**Primary**

> Primary scripts should be called by "npm start" script

- `start:docker:db`

  > This runs Prisma Engine (:4466) and MySQL (:3306) in docker. Meanwhile, it runs your service locally. Use this option for local development.

- `start:docker:all`

  > This runs Prisma Engine (:4466), MySQL (:3306) and your Node service (:4000) in Docker containers

**Helper**

> Helper scripts should be called by Primary scripts

- `start:docker:entrypoint`

  > This is what's called the Dockerfile's CMD entry point.

- `start:vanilla`

  > This runs babel-node against your service's index file _without_ livereload enabled.

- `playground`

  > This launches the local GraphQL Playground on your machine.

- `dev`

  > Launch prisma-service locally with GraphQL Playground

- `docker:db`

  > Docker-compose script for _only_ Prisma Engine & MySQL

- `docker:all`
  > Docker-compose script for Prisma Engine, MySQL & your Node service.

### Gif Demo

> In case you're wondering, the demo below was captured after running `npm run start:docker:db`.
> However, from the browser, this is functionally identical to running `npm run start:docker:all`

**open localhost:4000 && open localhost:4466**
![prstar_localhost_4000_4466](https://github.com/servexyz/prisma-starter/blob/master/docs/prstar_localhost_4000_4466.gif)

> Want to see gifs of docker-compose.db.yml or docker-compose.all.yml executing?
> Want to see screenshots of prisma terminal?
> Was this well-intentioned gif too fast for you to see results?
> Visit [demo.md](./docs/demo.md)

---

#### localhost:4466 vs prisma:4466

You'll notice in [.env](./.env) that process.env.PRISMA_ENDPOINT is set to `http://localhost:4466`. However, in [index.js](./src/service/index.js) the Prisma server is initialized with `http://prisma:4466`

This is necessary when using docker-compose to containerize our prisma service (ie. src/service/...) along with the prisma engine (ORM layer which translates between prisma queries and mysql) & mysql database (persistent storage).

Why?
Short answer is because I'm not using Linux (I use Mac). The type of network you need to map Docker's localhost to your host's (ie. your laptop's) localhost is only available on Linux. I did find a [3rd party solution](https://github.com/mal/docker-for-mac-host-bridge) but decided to not go that route. I haven't tested this, so it could work. Just wanted to do it the vanilla way if possible (fortunately it was!)

If you'd like to explore more, you can peruse my notes on the issue [here](./docs/Docker_Localhost_Access_Issue.pdf)
